# AI Use Policy
Last updated: 2026-04-08

## Introduction

This document outlines the policy for the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) within our organisation. The purpose of this policy is to ensure that AI technologies are used responsibly, ethically, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

This application is released under an open-source license, however, we still need to protect the integrity of the project and ensure that any use of AI-generated content is used responsibly and that sources are properly cited.

## Guidelines for AI Use
1. Contributors are responsible for every line of code they submit. You must ensure that you:
   - You use the `AI` label on your PR if a feature/function/fix or chunk of the code has been generated by AI. <br>
	 The label is not required if you have only used advice from AI as part of your development process. 
   - Certify that you have read every line of code and understand it.
   - Ensure that all references and sources are properly cited.
   - Ensure that you have the right to use any content generated by AI.
1. This policy ensures that we keep a human in the loop for all code submissions and large rewrites done wholly by AI are likely to be rejected without adequate explanation.
1. The use of AI to undertake pull request reviews is enforced on this project as the Copilot functionality can help spot minor typos and mistakes however the developer is responsible for checking the validity of suggestions made.
1. We recommend you carefully craft your prompts to ensure that AI agents only use known sources, such as documentation, as this will assist in ensuring that you are able to cite references used. 

All contributions need to be submitted as part of a pull request and every line of code needs to be understood by a `core developer` on this project. You may be asked to explain code that has been generated by AI. 

See our [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) document for more information on becoming a core developer on this project. 

## Policy development

The use of AI is constantly evolving and this policy may be updated regularly as our understanding grows. As such we encourage you to check this document regularly. 

It is essential that we are able to maintain this codebase and quickly resolve any issues that arise. This is why we need to ensure that there is always a human in the loop. 

This policy should be read in conjunction with the project's [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md), [DEVELOPING.md](./DEVELOPING.md), and [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
